# Enhancing Multi-Class Vulnerability Detectionvia Attention-Based Graph Neural Networks (Under review)
Software vulnerabilities are widespread and threaten the security of real-world systems. With the rapid increase in the number of vulnerabilities, traditional vulnerability detection approaches, which heavily rely on hand-crafted vulnerability patterns, are hard to satisfy the need for software vulnerability detection due to poor performance. Recently, learning-based (especially deep learning-based) vulnerability detection approaches have shown their advantages because they can mine implicit vulnerability features from a large number of known vulnerabilities. Existing deep learning-based vulnerability detection approaches mostly focus on identifying potential vulnerabilities in the target program, but do not point out corresponding vulnerability types. However, pinpointing the vulnerability type is necessary because it can reflect the vulnerability principles and reduce the workload of developers for vulnerability analysis to a certain extent.

In this paper, we propose EVD, a novel deep learning-based approach by leveraging attention-based graph neural networks and minority oversampling for enhancing vulnerability detection. Our approach combines multiple code representations to characterize different types of vulnerabilities and leverages an attention-based graph neural network to learn local program semantics to supports more precise vulnerability type detection. In addition, we also leverage a minority oversampling technique to avoid performance drop caused by serious multi-class imbalance in the distribution of vulnerability types. We examine the effectiveness of our approach on both binary and multi-class vulnerability detection tasks. Our experimental results indicate that EVD is effective in detecting the vulnerable source code and their corresponding vulnerability types. 
